

       Super Pengo Twins

          Map Editor Instructions.

  To run the map editor you will need the ASL library in your LIBS drawer.

  Make sure you have a copy of the MAPS drawer on disk 1 incase you overwrite
  one of the files with a new map file that is not complete.



  The main display is made up of two sections, the menu bar ( on the left )
and the map area ( on the right ). To move between the two areas press the
right mouse button. The cursor is controlled using the mouse.

  The map area.
  -------------

  When you are in this area you can draw the current block to the screen
by pressing the Left mouse button.

  The menu area.
  --------------

  Menus are selected by moving the mouse pointer over the desired menu
and pressing the Left mouse button.


    MENU OPTIONS...
    ---------------


  Load.     Loads a previously saved map.
  -----

  Save.     Saves the current map.
  -----


  Gfx.      This option allows you to set the current graphic block.
  ----      Once selected a new display will appear in the map area
            consisting of a number of blocks. To select a block simply
            move the mouse pointer over the required block and press
            the left mouse button. You will then be returned to the normal
            display. The current block is displayed below the QUIT menu
            option.

  New.      Clears the current map.
  ----

  Fill.     Fills the map with the background block.
  -----

  Quit.     Quits back to Workbench.
  -----


  Designing a map.
  ----------------

  RULES !!.
  --------
      For the map to work correctly you MUST

  1   :   Make sure the map display is complete, no black areas should be
          present.

  2   :   Every block on the edge of the map should be a wall block.
          ( the gold coloured blocks to you and me .. ).

  3   :   There should be only 1 Player 1 Home ( the block with the red circle )
          and 1 Player 2 Home ( the block with the green circle ) in the map.

  4   :   The Bad dudes start from the four corners of the map so once the wall
          has been drawn around the map leave the new corners as the background
          graphic otherwise strange things may happen !!. The simplist way to
          understand this is to play the game and take note where four of the
          badies come from. this area MUST be left as the background graphic
          ( the first block on the graphic select screen ).


  Running a map.
  --------------

  Once a map is complete all you need to do is save the map to the MAPS drawer
  on disk 1 as any of the original maps.
  Before doing this make sure you have a copy of the original maps just incase
  something goes wromg.

  EG..
      If you want to save your map as level 1 then you would need to save your
      map as 1.map.

      The maps in this drawer relate to the 20 levels in the game.




    Enjoy...


    David Worswick..
